# Single Sign On from G-Suite (Google Apps) to SSH

The following provides an end-to-end SSO solution that allows using Google Apps sign-in (where things like 2-factor can be enforced) to allow SSH access to your hosts using the standard SSH command line tools.

## Building from source

Both client and server are written in Go, primarily because there are good crypto libraries for Go, and Go makes it easy to build and distribute a single static binary with no dependencies.

First, install go <https://golang.org/dl/> and set an appropriate `GOPATH` in your profile, for example:

    cat >> ~/.bash_profile <<EOF
    export GOPATH=$HOME/go
    export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH
    EOF
    source ~/.bash_profile


Fetch source and build both the client and the server (the `...` is not a typo), can be re-run to fetch updates:

    go get -u github.com/continusec/geecert/cmd/...

Verify binaries are built:

    ls -l $GOPATH/bin

Shows:

    -rwxr-xr-x 1 adam users 12769648 Oct 18 17:21 geecert
    -rwxr-xr-x 1 adam users 12352336 Oct 18 17:21 servegeecerts

### Developer notes

If you make any changes to `ssoproto/sso.proto`, run the following to re-generate new Go code (assumes that [protoc](https://github.com/google/protobuf/releases) is installed):

    cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/continusec/geecert
    protoc -I. sso.proto --go_out=plugins=grpc:sso

To build and install new server and client after changing Go source, run:

    go install github.com/continusec/geecert/cmd/...

## SSO Server
The SSO Server can be built from source assuming a working `golang` install. It does however compile to a single statically linked binary, so once built that binary can be distributed to another machine without needing anything else.


### Running `servegeecerts`

To run `servegeecerts` you first need to configure a valid configuration file. The configuration file is in protobuf text format. See sample configuration file here: [$GOPATH/src/github.com/continusec/geecert/sample\_server\_config.proto](./sample_server_config.proto)

See that file for more information on the options available.

Once a config file is prepared, simply run the server:

    servegeecerts /path/to/config.proto

If all is good, you should see:

    2016/10/18 17:14:29 Serving...

Now, go build and run a client to use.

## `geecert` client tool

(Note, this is intended to be run from an end-client workstation, e.g. your laptop, rather than an intermediate server)

Simply run (with correct server / port):

    geecert --server hostwhereserveris:10000
    
And, if self-signed certificate was used above:

    geecert --server hostwhereserveris:10000 --server_cert my-cert.pem
    
or, to disable cert checking (bad): 

    geecert --server hostwhereserveris:10000 --allow_insecure_connect_to_sso_server


The first time this is run, it will perform an OAuth 2.0 dance with Google to fetch long-lived credentials for your account. If you are running in a nice GUI environment it will launch a browser for you. Otherwise you'll be given a URL to copy/paste.

Then (and on each subsequent run), it will check to see if it has a valid short-lived ID token from Google. If not, it will connect to Google to fetch a new one (which will be granted unless the user (or a domain admin)) revokes access by the SSO tool.

Next it will generate a new key/pair and send the public key and the short lived ID token to the `servegeecerts` that we ran above. The `servegeecerts` will validate the ID token, and then, if appropriate, will generate a new certificate for that public key, and send it back the client.

Finally the client will update a set of config files in `~/.ssh`. Specifically it will:

1. Overwrite `~/.ssh/id_orgname_shortlived_rsa` with the new private key generated.

2. Overwrite `~/.ssh/id_orgname_shortlived_rsa.pub` with the new public key generated.

3. Overwrite `~/.ssh/id_orgname_shortlived_rsa-cert.pub` with the certicate received for that key.

4. Edit `~/known_hosts` to add (and overwrite this section on subsequent runs) this section:

        # AUTOGENERATED:BEGIN:GEECERT - DO NOT EDIT BETWEEN MARKERS!
        @cert-authority *.yourdomain.com sha-rsa AAAAB3NzaC...qZyhLayRUw== GEECERTCA
        # AUTOGENERATED:END:GEECERT- DO NOT EDIT BETWEEN MARKERS!

5. Edit `~/config` to add (and overwrite this section on subsequent runs) this section:

        # AUTOGENERATED:BEGIN:GEECERT - DO NOT EDIT BETWEEN MARKERS!
        Host *.yourdomain.com
            User foo
            IdentityFile /home/adam/.ssh/id_orgname_shortlived_rsa
            IdentitiesOnly yes
            PasswordAuthentication no
        # AUTOGENERATED:END:GEECERT - DO NOT EDIT BETWEEN MARKERS!

This instructs the client to use (and only use) the new certificate, and to trust the same CA for host-based authentication. The config returned here is controlled by the server.

### Tip: Worried about bad things happening to good config?

Consider backing up your `~/.ssh` before running the tool if concerned. Alternatively consider running a local git repo until comfortable with what the tool is doing - make it easy to see the differences:

    cd ~/.ssh
    git init
    git add *
    git commit -a -m "Initial commit."
    

# Troubleshooting

## "FileVault must be enabled" error
`geecert` soft-enforces a minimum security profile that should be present on a workstation on in order to receive credentials to production systems. As such, when present on a Mac, if full disk encryption is not enabled, then `geecert` will not run (and other platforms to follow). The intention is to mitigate against theft of a device that contains credentials.

The best way to fix this error is to enabled FileVault. Alternatively, re-run with `--override_machine_policy` although this may be disabled in the future.

## Deleting cached credentials
If there are errors coming back from the Google server such as `invalid_grant`, try removing the saved credentials and re-authorizing the application.

    rm ~/.geecert
    
Then re-run the tool:

    geecert

## Revoking access to Google account

To revoke access to your Google account, visit:
<https://security.google.com/settings/security/permissions>

And remove the application that matches your client ID. Note that since the ID Tokens issued by Google are generally for 1 hour, they will continue to be accepted by the SSO server until they timeout.

# Acknlowdgements

The author gratefully acknlowledges the initial funding for development of this tool by [Androgogic Pty Ltd](http://www.androgogic.com/).

